# Intro
Bask is a programming language I am writing as a hobby in order to learn about compilers. I aim to include all the features that i personally like in other programming languages, including:
- A system similar to rust's "impl" system of associating methods to types. I probably wont implement traits but it is still early days
- Method overloading
- Operator overloading (i.e. redefining what operators do when applied to different types)
- Generic types
- Algebraic type system (sum and product types)

## Technology
I am using rust to write the compiler, and [Pest](https://pest.rs/) to assist in making the parser. The target for compilation will be LLVM.

# Progress
- [x] Lexing
- [x] Parsing
- [x] Expression parsing
- [ ] Type Checking
- [ ] Code Generation
- [ ] Optimisation

I am currently in the process of creating the type system, and figuring out how it will translate to LLVM. 

# Running
To run the compiler, you will need to have rust installed. You can then run the following commands to build and run the compiler:
``` bash
cargo run -- compile <input files>
```

This will output the AST of the program to the console. Basic type checking is also performed, and any errors will be printed to the console. If multiple files are provided, they will simply be concatenated together before being parsed. This is not permenant, and will be changed in the future to a proper module system.   
Some example programs can be found in the test folder.

# Syntax
The syntax of the language is defined in src/compiler/parser/bask.pest. The following code snippts all use swift syntax highlighting because it matches fairly well. 

## Vector
Here is an exmaple of a vector type with some methods defined on it. The syntax is very similar to rust's impl system, but the methods are defined in a block after the struct definition.
``` swift
struct Vector2 {
  x : float,
  y : float
}.{
  fn length() -> float {
    return sqrt(x * x + y * y);
  }

  fn normalized() -> Vector2 {
    float len = length();
    return new(x / len, y / len);
  }

  fn normalize() {
    float len = length();
    x = x / len;
    y = y / len;
  }
}
```

## Expressions 
This is an example of some expressions. The syntax is very similar to C, but with some differences. The main difference is that the type of a variable is defined after the variable name, and the type of a function is defined after the function name. The type of a variable can be inferred from the type of the expression it is assigned to, and the type of a function can be inferred from the type of the expression it returns. The type of a function can also be explicitly defined, which is useful for recursive functions. 

``` swift
fn fun() -> int {
    return 1 + 5*2 - ((10 * 2));
}

fn main() -> int {
    int x = fun();
    print((string) x);
}

```
This is the AST generated from the above code. The AST is generated by the parser, and is used by the type checker and code generator.
```
File
  Function
    FunctionName : fun
    typeID : int
    CodeBlock
      Return
        Expression
          Sub
            Add
              IntLit : 1
              Mul
                IntLit : 5
                IntLit : 2
            Mul
              IntLit : 10
              IntLit : 2
  Function
    FunctionName : main
    typeID : int
    CodeBlock
      Declaration
        typeID : int
        varID : x
        Expression
          MethodCall : fun()
      MethodCall : print((string) x)
        MethodParameters
          Expression
            Cast
              typeID : string
              varID : x
```